Hi I'm Angel with FleeceFun.com. Today I'm
going to show you how to make a scrapper mitt.
Perfect for keeping your hands warm and dry
while you scrap the windshield. For this project
you will need the following. You will need
a 1/3 yard of fleece for a small size (little
less than 1/2 of a yard for a large) and actually
you can make several from this or a matching
hat to go with it if you want. An 1/8 of a
yard of faux fur and this is optional but
I do recommend it. 4-5 inches of sew on Velcro.
A 1 inch d ring and and of course a windshield
scrapper and I got mine at the dollar store.
Once you have all those things it's time to
start cutting out your pattern. You'll need
to cut out two of the lining pattern, two
of the exterior, two of the cuff, one of the
loop, and two of the amazing size adjuster.
Now for this pattern you will be cutting fur
and something I highly recommend is that you
don't double up on fur. You need to cut out
each piece individually. The pattern's symmetrical
so you don't have to worry about flipping
over the pattern. You just need to cut out
two singley of the fur and make sure that
the nap of the fur is going the same direction.
I like to have it going down the glove so
you'll just pet the fur if you will and see
what direction it lies so you want it lying
all in the same direction on both sides of
the cuff when you put it together. Another
thing is you really want to cut this either
outside or when you're done cutting it inside
take it out immediately and give it a good
shake because the fur is going to fly everywhere.
You need to be very careful. I don't want
you to have to clean up the mess. Also, you're
going to want a lint roller for yourself when
you're working with fur. But trust me it looks
so great it's worth it. We're going to start
with the lining. Putting right sides together
you're going to sew each side of the seam
of the lining using a half inch seam allowance
leaving the bottom and the top open- the little
square at the top. Once you've sewn on each
side try slipping the scrapper into the top
of the mitt to make sure that it fits. You
might want to make the opening a little smaller
to make it a good snug fit if you need to.
Turn it right side out and then set it aside.
Once you have the lining put together set
it aside and let's get started on the rest
of the mitt. Taking the two pieces of the
size adjuster, place the right sides together
and leaving the short straight side open sew
arm using a quarter inch seam allowance, trim
down the excess, and turn right side out.
Make sure the seams are well pushed out. Then
top stitch close to the edge less than a quarter
of an inch all the way around. Then taking
the 4-5 inches of Velcro sew the hook on one
end and loop on the other end leaving a gap
in between. Now that the Velcro is all on
the same side of the size adjuster once you
have that done set it aside. Now it's time
to make the exterior with the cuff. With right
sides together you're going to take one of
the exterior and one of the cuff, pin together,
and then sew using a half inch seam allowance.
Repeat with the other side. Now you're going
to tack on the D ring, the loop, and the amazing
size adjuster to run on the exterior sides.
You're going to take the loop piece, fold
in each side, and sew a straight stitch down
the middle to give it a nice finish look.
Then slip the D ring on. Loop the folded half
to secure the D ring on and you're going to
pin it to the mitt. And then you're going
to pin the amazing size adjuster to the other
side, the opposite side of the D ring loop
and I just recommend sewing and tacking those
on. Ok great now that you got that done it's
time for the next step. Alright now it's time
to bring the exterior together. Sew like you
did with the lining. Sew each side using a
half inch seam allowance taking care to go
slow over the very thick sections where sewn
on the D ring and the size adjuster as there
is a lot of fabric and leave the top and the
bottom open. Alright now that you have your
exterior ready it's time to get you interior
and bring it all together. Taking the lining
you're going to stuff it inside the exterior
so right sides are touching. Line up the seams
on the bottom, pin them together, and sew
them together using a half inch seam allowance.
You're going to turn it right side out by
pulling it through the opening in the top.
So you're going to pull it all the way out
then you're going to stuff the lining back
in. Then you're going to insert the scrapper,
loop the adjuster through the D ring, and
you are finished. Now one final thing even
though it is picky is you should try using
a little needle to pull fur out of the seam
of the cuff. It will just make it look nice.
If you like this pattern and tutorial I have
several others on my website FleeceFun.com
that you might also enjoy. All my patterns
and tutorials are free. You might also like
the Rocker Trapper Hat, you can actually insert
headphones into the hat so you can rock out
to your tunes while keeping warm. You might
also like the bow infinity wrap- very stylish,
cute, and made out of minky to keep your shoulders
warm. Have a great day and remember velvet
is pretentious, fleece is fun!